Next, we're gonna talk about some design
patterns when it comes to components that
are really useful at scale.
And the first of which is
the vendor components wrapper.
So here we have a simple component that's
using these Font Awesome icons from
the Font Awesome library, right?
We have water, earth, fire, and air.
And usually I do this in person,
because someone's chuckling, and
they recognize the Avatar reference.
And if you do,
I'm glad to meet fellow Avatar fans.
But, so anyways, we have these icons here.
And the problem is, though,
you can imagine though,
as you go through the various,
as you go through your application?
The problem is, when you're using these
Font Awesome icons throughout your app,
you're thinking,
I'm reusing it, it's great.
The problem is, what happens when
you actually need to refactor these.
And it's this scary moment because,
it's not even just refactor, right?
Because if it was as simple as swap
out Font Awesome for something,
it'd be one thing.
But I think we all know that when it comes
to design, the requirements are rarely so
black and white.
Sometimes you might need to import,
for example, your own custom icon.
And you might actually need,
maybe you wanna swap it out for material.
And so if you have a large app,
somebody swapping Font Awesome icons for
material icons would be a huge,
that PR would be monstrous.
And you'd have to be really
careful about how you handle that.
Well, that's why going forward,
we represent basically,
when you're using vendor, of course
components, right, something that's coming
from a third party, always wrap
it inside of your own component.
So even though Font Awesome in that
example, right, had its own API for
how Font Awesome works, that's fine.
But inside of your application, in this
case, you should be using a BaseIcon.vue.
And then that will go ahead, and
then you can then toggle, right?
You can do that, okay, either in this
case, we wanna manually define that if
the source is Font Awesome, then we'll
use the Font Awesome icon component, and
we'll pass in the name,
just like you normally would expect.
On the other hand, by default,
by default, what we'd really want is
just to use our custom icon that
the designer's provided for us.
And so this is really critical, because
then, now going forward, if someone wants
to add another library, it is as simple
as adding a v-if-else, or v-else-if.
So v-else if source equals material
design, no problem, you're good to go.
You don't need to reconfigure
everything in order to make this work.
And vice versa if, in the future,
you need to upgrade or change anything.
The changes become smaller in scope,
and so again,
when we think about enterprise
production-grade apps,
it's really about easing that
process of getting features through.
And so as we all know,
right, pull requests are a big
part of our code review process.
So the easier you can make code reviews,
the faster things go through.
And vendor wrapper icons are one of those
ways to just shorten the code review
process, and to focus on
the things that actually matter.
Not whether 200 lines of replacing Font
Awesome icons actually broke anything,
that would be terrifying.
So the next design pattern that
is really worth mentioning
is the transparent component
wrapper design pattern.
And so you can imagine that, right,
over time, forms is one of the things that
a lot of us have to build out, and a lot
of times, we need to customize the input.
Native HTML just doesn't do the trick.
And so in the BaseInput example,
we can see that we have this input, right,
type="text".
And what we've done is we did the v-bind
technique, where we're spreading out all
of the attributes, right,
including all of the props onto our input.
And we wanna listen to
all of the listeners, so
that's why we do the v-on="$listeners".
And so when you do this originally,
you would probably think that, okay, so
if I call Base Input, and
I'm gonna pass it filterData,
the label will be Filter results, and
the placeholder's gonna be Type in here.
Your expectation is probably that, well,
obviously, I want this on the input,
so they should go here.
But by default,
it'll actually go onto the root element.
So this is one of the restrictions
that came with Vue 2, right?
Because at the time, it was basically,
Vue couldn't tell where things were
going with multi-root components.
And so basically, this is why, out of the
box, it always runs to the single root,
the root node,
as far as BaseInput is concerned.
Now, this is not what we want,
right, because this'll
basically break what we need.
And so what we actually need to do is,
inside of our script block,
we actually need to define that we want to
disable basically attribute inheritance.
And so you can see that inheritAttrs
on the bottom is equal to false.
And when you do that, that will then
appropriately allow those v-binds to work
in v-on correctly, and sort of reroute
everything to where you've defined it to.
Otherwise, it's automatically
gonna go to that root div.
So yep, so then they'll be passed
to the element instead, and
as long as you prevent Vue from assigning
attributes to the top-level element,
you will be good to go.
Okay, now, the thing is, though,
is that this syntax here
is specific to Vue 2.
As we know, a lot of times,
when frameworks upgrade,
sometimes things can get complicated,
things change a lot.
But one of the core principles that Vue 3
tries to uphold is that we wanna take what
we know people are doing a lot,
and we wanna make it even simpler.
And so in this case, for Vue 3, going
forward, instead of having to do all that,
props and attributes have
basically been fused together, and
as well as the listeners.
So all three of those things
are now under one attribute, so
the attribute object, basically.
And so in Vue 3, all you gotta do, as long
as you v-bind your attrs to this input,
in this particular case,
everything will work as expected.
So it simplifies the syntax, and there's
sort of less things for you to configure.
Granted, if you need to break it up,
you can still break it up, right?
Inside of attrs, there's still listeners,
there's still props, and
you can break them up as you need.
But the syntax is much simpler now.